Now, you may be wondering, mow, now that we have Firebase talking to our app and vice versa, how
do we get this up and running?
Well, that's a good question.
We're going to do a small scale integration here in Appalachia's and then we're going to scale it out.
So we're going to do use state and use effect from react.
And what we're going to do then here is we're going to say CONSED is authenticated and set is authenticated.
Is equal to you, state of false, and so we're going to basically said, if you're authenticated or
not, then we're going to implement the use effect that's going to take in the function that we're going
to utilize and we're going to run it on mount on mount of the components.
So an empty array.
OK, now that we know that what we're going to use is something called firebase off that Sinon with
email and password, and this is returning a promise.
So if we fill in email and password as a string, we know this isn't going to work, but we do dot then
well in the dot then we should re retrieving the user object.
And if we have an error, it will happen in the dot catch and that will return us an error.
So let's console that log error and let's console that log user.
And let's also set is authenticated to true, if you do hit the Truthy case, and so with this, basically
our integration is good.
But let's do one more thing.
Let's go ahead and test it out.
Let's open our console here and open our terminal and then let's go over to our app and let's open it
up.
And by opening it up, what we're going to see happen here is we're going to see the logs pop up once
it has loaded.
And so over here, you can see our email address is poorly formatted, OK, so this is not a valid email
address, email at Beeny Audio.
And if we do that.
Well, Firebase Apennine with default already exists, so this is an error we're getting because of
hot refresh, so hot reload, we can't hot reload inside of Riak native with the JavaScript SDK like
this.
So we need to do something additional because we don't want this area to come back.
And you can see that it's just because we're hot, reloading.
Any time I change a line of code, it's just as you can see, there's no user record, etc, etc. But
if I update oh, it's going to break again.
The Firebase Abney with default already exists.
So this line is breaking because we're running it too many times.
So what we want to do is we want to check, if not firebase dot apps dot length.
OK, so we want to check if you have a firebase length, if you don't have a firebase link.
So we don't have firebase apps running in here, run the initialize app, otherwise don't run the initialise
up so that we make sure that we only ever run it runs.
And now if we update our code, we can see that it is continuing to refresh and everything is working
as intended and there's no more crashes.
But now we're seeing the error.
There is no user record corresponding with this identifier.
Huh?
All right, so let's go ahead and create a user.
Let's go inside of Firebase directly and let's go inside of authentication and let's add a user and
let's say that the user is NMO at Beeny D'Addario and let's give him the password test.
Let's add the user or test.
It must be six characters.
Test one, two, three, then.
And then once we do that, we'll see here that we have this user in our user base, so if we do MO Apennine
audio and password, well, now we can see the password is invalid.
So if you fill in test, one, two, three.
Well, now we're getting back the user object, and as you can see here, the user object has a lot
of information.
We can see here that it's coming from the app meals to go, what the email is, if the email is verified
or not, when they last logged in, we can see the display name and all that good stuff.
We don't have very much information for our user, but we do have their email and we know that they're
authenticated because they authenticated against Firebase.
So if we remove this log, we now know that you are authenticated.
So what we can do here is we can do a shorthand.
We can say, hey, if you are not authenticated and let's do it below the usage of these hooks, if
you are not authenticated, then we're going to return null.
And then once you are authenticated, will return, true.
And so what we can see here is if we if we wrap this with a set time out.
And we set that to two seconds, but we're going to see here is that when we reload the app.
We're going to have to wait for two seconds before the authentication kicks in.
And then once you're authenticated, the app will render so we could put a loading indicator here or
we could put whatever else while you're authenticating.
Now, you can already feel like this isn't really scalable, this isn't really where you want to put
your authentication code, nor do you want a hard code.
The inputs and I can already hear you saying and shouting from the rooftops.
So this has to be a service.
And you're right.
So let's look at how we're going to take this basic implementation where we're just trying to play around
with the authentication and then push it outward towards a more robust implementation that actually
has a login screen and all of that good stuff.